why choose IIIT Kottayam?


Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam, an institute of national importance under IIIT PPP act, Ministry of Education, Govt.of India, is gearing up under the leadership of Dr. Rajiv Vasantarao Dharaskar (Director), Dr. M. Radhakrishnan (Registrar), and Prof P. Mohanan (Prof. In-charge).
Diversified Course Structure
As one of a few Indian Institutes of repute, IIIT Kottayam offers specialized courses covering all major research domains of computer science and engineering: IoT, Data science, Cloud Computing, Artificial Intelligence, Machine learning, Parallel Computing, Brain simulation, HPC, Programming languages, Bioinformatics, and so forth, as part of the 4 year B.Tech program. An M.Tech course is organized exclusively for the working professionals on Artificial Intelligence & Data Science, Cyber Security, CSE with Specialization in Big Data & Machine Learning . In addition, it offers Ph.D program in CSE/ECE/Mathematics.
Placements / Internships
Leading industries keep lining up for conducting interviews and placement drives to our students. The average salary package for our students is around 10.40 lakhs with the highest package of over 42 lakhs per annum.

Most often, these internships do lead to their placement offers. During internships, students attract over Rs.50000 to Rs.100000/- per month from leading industries, including Bosch, TCS, NIWE, US Technologies, and so forth. In fact, the students of IIIT Kottayam could easily attract industries for pursuing internship during their summer/winter vacations (4 months per year).

Entrepreneurial Ecosystem
IIIT Kottayam is designed in order to impart an entrepreneurial ecosystem in the campus. For instance, AIC-IIITKottayam, an incubation centre of IIIT Kottayam, is a vital resource to IIIT Kottayam students; AIC-IIITKottayam is a 10000 sq.feet incubation unit supported by AIM-NITI Aayog of India to the tune of Rs. 3.46 crores. It has attracted connections with leading industries, including RELIANCE JioGenNext (Entrepreneurial Unit) for motivating our student startups and for promoting student/faculty exchange. In addition, it has established an Entrepreneurial Innovation Club jointly with Wadhwani Foundation (Ongoing), an MNC from the Silicon Valley, USA. IIIT Kottayam, thus, helps students to continue championing in their career and attain goals with an entrepreneurial support. It provides tens of thousands of opportunities for them to develop their business ideas or thesis to products through MSME schemes – For each successful business ideas, our MSME Business Incubation unit could offer Rs.15 lakhs for students.
Faculty Strength
IIIT Kottayam is composed of the world-class qualified faculty members who are eager to continue research and contribute to the Indian/International society along with their wards. They design the courses as per the needs of the partnered industries and international requirements.

They are passionate enough to mentor/guide students apart from their working hours while ensuring the technological growth of individuals.

Memorandum of Understanding
IIIT Kottayam has already established MoU with some leading industrial / academic institutions in order to ensure placements or organize knowledge transfer programs -- MoUs with Government of India, Government of Kerala, Rolta, and CIAL has manifested the organization of knowledge transfer program. In addition, it has signed MoUs with world leading Universities such as Technical University Munich Germany and University of New Brunswick Canada, in order to conduct HPC/Cloud/Datascience specific joint research and to organize student exchange programs. In addition, inorder to boost up the innovation ambience at our Institute, we have joined hands with leading industries over the globe such as RELIANCE RIL, Wadhwani Foundation, BOSE Info Tech, Germany, and so forth.
Life at IIIT Kottayam
IIIT Kottayam ensures a 100 percent anti-ragging campus. The new comers of this institute are well-treated without inequity and gender bias. Tutors are assigned to each students in order to ensure a FEEL-AT-HOME environment during their stay at IIIT Kottayam (right from their initial stay at the campus). A high-speed internet and library connections / IEEE subscriptions keep motivating our IIIT Kottayam students for developing innovative solutions during their stay.
Skill Development
IIIT Kottayam offers several forum for students to organize and develop their skill sets. Clubs such as Technical Club, IEEE students, Sports club, Cultural club, Social and Literature club, Entrepreneurial and Innovation Club, and so forth have enabled most of the students to impart their leadership skills at IIIT Kottayam.
Relocation Benefits
IIIT Kottayam is located in the central part of Kerala, phrased as God’s Own Country. Kerala is the state with 100 percentage literacy; it is a business hub for trading spices and is an industrial sector for rubber industries, including MRF tyres. IIIT Kottayam is located in an ideal place where students could reach Trivandrum, Kochi, or Bangalore for establishing business and research developments.
