1. Who conducts the classes?
All classes are conducted by the IIIT Kottayam faculty. Industry experts are also invited for sharing their valuable experiences.


2. What is the Teaching Methodology?
The pedagogy is highly interactive and incorporates expansive teaching methods and approaches.


3. What PG Degree do we get?
On successful completion of the course, the candidates will be awarded M.Tech. Degree in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science/M.Tech. Degree in Cyber Security/M.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering with specialization in FinTech/ M.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering with specialization in Big Data and Machine Learning.


4. Can I visit the campus and have face to face interaction with the faculty members?
Participants are welcome to visit the campus and meet the faculty members, with prior appointments.


5. What is the duration of the course?
Six Semesters, which should be completed within a duration of a minimum of three to a maximum of five years.


6. What do the minimum and maximum durations refer to?
Minimum duration is the minimum period required to get your degree. Maximum duration indicates that you have to finish your degree within that period failing which your academic programme will be terminated unless Senate approves any extension.


7. As a part-time student, can I get any form of assistantship?
No, you are not eligible for an assistantship from Institute sources.


8. What is the fee structure?
The course fee is Rs 12,000 per credit for the theory/lab courses and Rs 5,000/- per credit for the project work. The students are required to earn a minimum of 60 credits for the award of the M.Tech Degree. Thus, the course fees come to a total of 5,24,000/-.


9. What is the eligibility for applying to MTech in (1) AI & Data Science, (2) Cyber Security, (3) CSE with specialization in Big data and Machine Learning?
The candidate must be employed and must have a B.Tech./B.E./AMIE degree or MCA or M.Sc./MS degree in CS/IT/Mathematics/Physics/Statistics.

The decision of the internal committee will be final and binding in deciding the eligibility.

10. Equivalence of degree through ODL and Online Mode - UGC Public Notice (2022)Click Here..
11. Guidelines regarding Equivalency/Recognition - Kerala State Higher Education Council (2018)Click Here..
12. I still have questions regarding admissions/PG degree programmes at IIIT Kottayam, whom shall I contact?
Please drop an email to pgacademics@iiitkottayam.ac.in / registrar@iiitkottayam.ac.in.
For further details please contact us: 0482-220 2161 /2137 /2100/2174